TITLE: Is the dining hall food really that bad
SOURCE URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/WilliamsCollege/comments/1scugjz/is_the_dining_hall_food_really_that_bad/
CONTENT: 
THREAD: most people i've asked always answers it in a hesitant tone. I went to their fly-in and i thought it was fine but when people describe it, it seems like its all overly negative

War1today: One of my twins recently graduated from Williams, and he had repeatedly told me the food is not good. That was one of his consistent complaints about the college. When there are special events they improve the food, say like parents weekend, hosting prospective students, graduation…, but the everyday food was bland, repetitive, lacked variety, especially for fruits and veggies. The other twin graduated from Bowdoin which arguably has among the best food of any college, and the difference was night and day. When the William’s twin visited Bowdoin to see a show or hang out… he was in culinary heaven so to speak.

But Williams is a great school so don’t left the food deter you.

ReviewLow8422:It’s baffling to me … the school has so much money, I don’t understand why the food is such a consistent complaint. In light of other things it seems like such a simple fix.

Smooth_Big_8757: I think it’s fine too lol. Is it amazing? No. But is it the absolute slop that some people tend to portray it as? Also no. I’m not hyping it up because I think it could be improved in a couple ways but overall I really don’t mind it and I’m just glad that I have easy access to food. Also, at Williams I’m glad to have autonomy over what I eat because they have a variety of options. It’s to the point where I sometimes enjoy eating at Williams more than I do at home because I get more of a say in what I’m feeding myself and I genuinely feel good about what I’m feeding my body.

Pringle_Lvr:In terms of quality, I actually think it's great, significantly better than high school food. I've only ever been to discroll, and even then there is quite a lot of variety. Like as a picky eater, there's always something to eat, and even if the rotating options aren't great there's always options like cereal, a salad bar, and plenty of good stuff all the time. I've always been mostly happy with what I can get, and you can look online at nutrislice to make sure it's kosher/halal or whatnot.

Hat-Extension:sorry not to be rude or anything, but what do you mean you’ve only ever been to driscoll? I mean it’s honestly impressive, but you are definitely limiting your options significantly

Pringle_Lvr:Like for my meal every day, I only go to driscoll. I have never had a meal from elsewhere so far, unless you're counting special occassions at restaurants (which has only been a few times). Unless you want to know more you probably don't want me venting about my mental health so I'll just leave it at that.

National-Wish6413:my hot take is that the vibes at resky are better than the vibes at driscoll