TITLE: DINING HALL dining_hall_food
SOURCE URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/WilliamsCollege/comments/1n48b0c/dining_hall_food/
CONTENT: 
CFDoom13:
Williams has many, many great things to offer. Good food is not one of them.


eskapi:
You can look up the menus for different dining halls (we have 3 that are buffet style) every day and see what kinds of things are on rotation if that helps
Acceptable-Matter774:
I disagree strongly. Food is generally way better than other colleges. However, any dinning hall food can eventually become uninspiring.

cherrycat520:
I’m a freshman and I can say most of the time it’s pretty bad but on a good day it can be kinda good


Beluga_Whhale:It gets worse. The dining hall makes better food during orientation and the first few weeks.

ykxz:a couple of ok restaurants but the dining hall food sucks most of the time

Smooth_Big_8757:Personally I have not had any overly negative experiences with it, and to be honest I've generally enjoyed the food even though lots of people tend to dislike it. I've had stuff I really enjoyed while my friends said the same food was mid or not great. There have been maybe one or two off days but overall I do feel well fed but I'm waiting to see if it'll start getting "bad" in later weeks like people say, cause so far everything has been fine.

The options are pretty balanced, sometimes the selection can be really protein heavy IMO but I've always been able to put a couple different things on my plate. There's always a salad bar if you really do not want any of the other foods (also cereal from breakfast lol). Breakfast tends to be similar stuff daily (at least at Whitmans, inside the Paresky Center) so I can expect to have the same balanced meal every day.

Ovearll, I'm wondering if the students just tend to have high standards or if it's just how I grew up, but I personally do not think the food is as bad as people make it out to be.

Future-Restaurant531:dining hall food is bad and unhealthy. Worse than any other college dining hall i've eaten at